{:title "Wacky flows, the re-ops adventure"
 :layout :post
 :tags  ["re-ops" "operations" "functional" "flows" "re-core" "re-mote"]
 :toc false}

### Intro
One of the things that I find about good tools is that they open up your imagination and increase your appetite for tying new stuff, in this post ill cover some of the flows that I see re-ops (and its main components re-core and re-mote) enabling you to do.

I suggest that while you follow this post think if your tools allow you to be not only productive but imaginative.

The flows that I'm going to present are not implemented, but all re-ops makes them all possible due to its basic architecture and design.

## Voice up

There are a lot of cases where it makes sense to create/start a VM/Physical machine, lets take for example your media server, or a remote development machine, we need those only on specific times yet we usually run them 24/7, but what if we could trigger them based on our needs?


```clojure
; start VM instances by saying 'Alexa start plex on' plex is the instance type
(run (alexa :event "power on") | (start) | (alexa :reply "ok"))

; updating all the machine by saying 'Alexa run update'
(run (alexa :event "update") | (update) | (alexa :reply "ok"))

```

Now this flow isn't implemented now, I suspect it should pretty easy to implement by exposing a WeMO like interface and pretending to be one or more devices.

Another good options (tough it will require a bit more setup) is to use MQTT, the main issue here is exposing the MQTT server to Alexa.

## Sensors

Another cool idea is to integrate re-ops with sensors:

```clojure
; our closet instances (including the physical hypervisor big-iron)
(def closet (Hosts. {} ["foo" "bar" "big-iron"]))

; Stopping our closet instances when it gets too hot (beyond 70c)
(run (sensor :event :temperture) | (pick (fn [t] (> t 70)))  | (stop hs) | (email to-from "stopped all closed instances, room too hot"))

```

Here we would stop all the VM's and the hosts if our server room (aka our closet) gets too hot thus preventing hardware meltdown while we are not near, we would need to exposing an MQTT end point and the rest should be pretty easy to follow.

Another more far out scenario, lets say you have solar panels and a sensor for detecting power output (is it sunny enough or not), you start your mining farm based on the power costs:

```clojure
; our closet instances (including the physical hypervisor big-iron)
(def mining-pool (Hosts. {} ["coin-1" "coin-1" "big-iron"]))

; We produce more then 10KW of power lets start mining
(run (sensor :event :power) | (pick (fn [kw] (> kw 10)))  | (start mining-pool))

```

## Scanning
Running a scanning tool on a regular basis is a good way for checking compliance and detect potential security issues:

```clojure

(def suspicious-ports #{25 ...})
(def scanner (Hosts. {} ["scanner"]))

(defn scan []
  (run (open-ports scanner) | (pick (fn [ports] (suspicious-ports ports)))   | (email "suspicious ports found"))

(watch :nap (every-day 22) (scan hosts))

```
Using a scanner host enables us to:

* Selectively allow password-less sudo access instance for the specific VM

* Have scanning agents running within segmented networks



## Summary
In this post we explored some of the more wacky (yet possible) workflows that a tool like re-ops can enable, having a flexible and fully programmable tool can open our imagination.


#### Footnotes:
* <small>A library for exposting a [WeMo]() device on the network.</small>
* <small>[MQTT]()</small>


